# Time-stamp: "2002-07-30 00:44:56 MDT"

HTML-Tree
---------

This distribution contains a suite of modules for representing,
creating, and extracting information from HTML syntax trees; there is
also relevent documentation.  These modules used to be part of the
libwww-perl distribution, but are now unbundled in order to facilitate
a separate development track.  Bug reports and discussions about these
modules can still be sent to the <libwww@perl.org> mailing list, or to
<sburke@cpan.org>.

The modules and documentation present in this collection are:

  HTML::Tree -- overview of the modules.

  HTML::Tree::AboutObjects -- an article by Sean M. Burke from
    The Perl Journal #17: "User's View of Object-Oriented Modules"

  HTML::Tree::AboutTrees -- an article by Sean M. Burke from
    The Perl Journal #18: "Trees", about tree-shaped data
    structures in Perl.

  HTML::Tree::Scanning -- an article by Sean M. Burke from
    The Perl Journal #19: "Scanning HTML".


  HTML::Element - class for representing the nodes of the HTML syntax
        trees.  The elements have other elements and text segments
        as children.  The HTML::Element class has methods to build,
        alter, and traverse the structure of the tree.

  HTML::TreeBuilder - a class that uses HTML::Parser to read HTML
        document text and build from it a syntax tree made of
        HTML::Element nodes.

  HTML::Parse - deprecated module.  Now just a wrapper around
        HTML::TreeBuilder

  HTML::AsSubs - module providing an easy way to build an HTML syntax
        tree by nesting functions.



PREREQUISITES

In order to install and use this package you will need Perl version
5.004 or better.  You will also need to have an HTML-Parser and
HTML-Tagset distributions installed.  All of these should be available
from CPAN.



INSTALLATION

Just follow the usual procedure:

   perl Makefile.PL
   make
   make test
   make install

Or see also "perldoc perlmodinstall"



SUBLIMINAL MESSAGE: BUY THE BOOK!

The book /Perl & LWP/ by me, Sean M. Burke, is published by
O'Reilly and Associates, 2002.  ISBN: 0-596-00178-9

It has several chapters to do with HTML processing in general,
and HTML-Tree specifically.  There's more info at:

  http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/perllwp/
  http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0596001789



COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1995-1998 Gisle Aas; copyright 1999-2002 Sean M. Burke.
(Except the articles contained in HTML::Tree::AboutObjects,
HTML::Tree::AboutTrees, and HTML::Tree::Scanning, which are all
copyright 2000 The Perl Journal.)

Except for those three TPJ articles, the whole HTML-Tree distribution,
of which this file is a part, is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

Those three TPJ articles may be distributed under the same terms as
Perl itself.

The programs in this library are distributed in the hope that they
will be useful, but without any warranty; without even the implied
warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

